imagine you are miles away from anywhere
on a remote far-flung island in the
middle of the Atlantic Ocean welcome to
Sal Miguel 1,500 kilometers from
mainland Portugal and one of the nine
islands that make up the beautiful
archipelago of the Azores pojo UK have
sent their intrepid explorers guy Wilkes
and Phil pew to hunt for treasure at the
sixth round of the Intercontinental
Rally challenge it's the first time they
have ventured to the islands so what do
they think so far green difference
friendly people it's a fantastic
landscape cows I'm yeah there's a lot of
cows but hopefully they'll remain in the
fields you know it has been Oldham this
rally that cows can't have been on the
stages cows are remain feature on San
Miguel agriculture and dairy farming
being the main industry here but less
about the livestock more about the rally
after five rounds of tarmac round six
will be the first of the season on
gravel guy talks us through the
difference for the Peugeot 207 set up on
this loose surface event on gravel to
get the grip you have to try and move
the stones from underneath the tire
that's why we have these big Nobles on
the tires also in making the the wheel
smaller to make the profile of the tire
bigger and obviously to get the grip if
we have to put the smaller brakes on the
car as well would like to use bigger
brakes like we do on tarmac to stop the
car quicker but it's for this reason
that the wheels are smaller but the use
smaller brakes it's reinforced inside
all of this fiber glass and Kevlar
so that's a big difference because we
need to protect them at the bottom of
the car against the rocks in the
compressions that we might get towards
the engine so here we have extra
protection here the mud flaps as well
obviously it's important that we see our
sponsors you know what are the aim for
this weekend then what are you hoping to
take away from a good result it seems a
long time since we've had one so yeah
we've been ordered by the dreaded word
in the last few rallies so we're not
will not mention that but they're not
scared of it either you know we just we
know what we do our best we can be there
and they're about I don't think there's
pressure you know I think the result is
there we're just got to get a bit of
luck running photos you know we had
punctures in yaletown again we were
running really strong in Belgium so I
think yeah put all up to the back online
and just concentrate and driving a good
rally and I'm sure the result will come
with shakedown complete guy and fill all
ready for the three stages that follow
it's a warm afternoon on San Miguel with
temperatures in the mid-20s and even
hotter inside the cars
gyan Phil set the fourth fastest time on
the 13 kilometers of the opening stage
we meet them at the end of the second
obviously Robison plays a big part in
Australian we just decided to take it
steady we had a bit of a year
pop it on the person when we thought we
got a puncher so we backed up a bit but
ok maybe a little bit too much there now
he told me a shakedown you're trying
something new you're going out on a bit
of an unknown has it worked on that
birthday
yeah but that did actually work but the
first stage was very very fast and a
high top speed I think that we've chosen
the shortest ratio in the car and it
will be good in this major tomorrow with
three stages complete it's time to
return to the port side service area and
it seems on the super special the
peugeot 207 picked up a little bit of
damage a chip to the windscreen from
stones thrown up from the car they were
racing against Phil tries to persuade
the driver in question yanka pesky to
fix it the woman's credit card it's Boyd
was left under nine stages lie ahead on
day two of the event the boys currently
sit in seventh position overall 29.3
seconds adrift of the lead they have a
big day ahead tomorrow to try and make
up that time in the overall standings
you ho hannenin leads the rally with
Bruno mega leche in second in a peugeot
207 and andreas mikkelsen in third